# 2.5 数据类型 Data types

Origin URL from [types](https://javascript.info/types).
## Number

- The _number_ type represents both integer and floating point numbers.
- There are many operations for numbers, e.g. multiplication `*`, division `/`, addition `+`, subtraction `-`, and so on.
- Besides regular numbers, there are so-called “special numeric values” which also belong to this data type: `Infinity`, `-Infinity` and `NaN`.
- `Infinity` represents the mathematical [Infinity](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Infinity) ∞.


We can get it as follows:

```js
console.log("infinity output => ", 1/0);        // infinity output =>  Infinity
console.log("infinity output => ", Infinity);   // infinity output =>  Infinity
```

`NaN` is a result of an incorrect or an undefined mathematical operation.  Any further mathematical operation on `NaN` returns `NaN`.

```js
console.log("output => ", "I am not a num" / 2);   // output =>  NaN
console.log("output => ", NaN + 1, 3* NaN);        // output =>  NaN NaN
```

## BigInt

In JavaScript, the “number” type cannot safely represent integer values larger than `(2^53-1)` (that’s `9007199254740991`), or less than `-(2^53-1)` for negatives. An “approximate” value may be stored.

For example, these two numbers (right above the safe range) are the same:

```js
console.log("9007199254740991+ 1", 9007199254740991 + 1);  // 9007199254740992 
console.log("9007199254740991+ 2", 9007199254740991 + 2);  // 9007199254740992
```

A `BigInt` value is created by appending `n` to the end of an integer:

```js
const bigInt = 12345678901234567890n;
```

## String
There are 3 types of quotes.
1. Double quotes: `'Hello'`
2. Single quotes: `'Hello'`
3. Backticks: `` `Hello` ``

```js
let str = "Hello";
let str2 = 'Hello';
let phase = `${str} World!`;

// test
console.log('output => ', str, str2, phase);  // output =>  Hello Hello Hello World!
```

Backticks are “extended functionality” quotes. They allow us to embed variables and expressions into a string by wrapping them in `${…}`, for example:

```js
let name = "Xigma";

// embed a variable
console.log(`Hello, ${name}`);         //   Hello, Xigma

// embed an expression
console.log(`the result is ${1 + 2}`); //   the result is 3
```


Other quotes don’t have this embedding functionality

```js
console.log("the result is ${1 + 2}");
```

## Boolean (logical type)

The boolean type has only two values: `true` -- “yes, correct”  and `false` “no, incorrect”.
Boolean values also come as a result of comparisons.

```js
let nameChecked = true;
let ageChecked = 40 > 18;

// test
console.log('output => ', nameChecked, ageChecked);   //  output =>  true true
```


## The "null" value

The special `null` value does not belong to any of the types described above, it’s just a special value which represents “nothing”, “empty” or “value unknown”.

```js
let age = null;
```

In JavaScript, `null` is not a “reference to a non-existing object” or a “null pointer” like in some other languages.


## The "undefined" value

The meaning of  `undefined` is ***value is not assigned*** .
If a variable is declared, but not assigned, then its value is `undefined`. It is possible to explicitly assign `undefined` to a variable:

```js
let age;

// test
console.log('output => ', age);
```

Normally, one uses `null` to assign ***an “empty” or “unknown” value*** to a variable, while `undefined` is reserved as a default initial value for unassigned things.


Summary

There are 8 basic data types in JavaScript.

- Seven primitive data types:
    - `number` for numbers of any kind: integer or floating-point, integers are limited by `±(253-1)`.
    - `bigint` for integer numbers of arbitrary length.
    - `string` for strings. A string may have zero or more characters, there’s no separate single-character type.
    - `boolean` for `true`/`false`.
    - `null` for unknown values – a standalone type that has a single value `null`.
    - `undefined` for unassigned values – a standalone type that has a single value `undefined`.
    - `symbol` for unique identifiers.
- And one non-primitive data type:
    - `object` for more complex data structures.

The `typeof` operator allows us to see which type is stored in a variable.


## Object and Symbols

The `object` type is special.

All other types are called “primitive” because their values can contain only a single thing (be it a string or a number or whatever). In contrast, objects are used to store collections of data and more complex entities.

Being that important, objects deserve a special treatment. We’ll deal with them later in the chapter [Objects](https://javascript.info/object), after we learn more about primitives.

The `symbol` type is used to create unique identifiers for objects. We have to mention it here for the sake of completeness, but also postpone the details till we know objects.



The `typeof` operator returns the type of the operand. It’s useful when we want to process values of different types differently or just want to do a quick check.

A call to `typeof x` returns a string with the type name:

```js

typeof undefined // "undefined"
typeof 0 // "number"
typeof 10n // "bigint"
typeof true // "boolean"
typeof "foo" // "string"
typeof Symbol("id") // "symbol"
typeof Math // "object"(1)
typeof null // "object"(2)
typeof alert // "function"(3)
```


The last three lines may need additional explanation:

1. `Math` is a built-in object that provides mathematical operations. We will learn it in the chapter [Numbers](https://javascript.info/number). Here, it serves just as an example of an object.
2. The result of `typeof null` is `"object"`. That’s an officially recognized error in `typeof`, coming from very early days of JavaScript and kept for compatibility. Definitely, `null` is not an object. It is a special value with a separate type of its own. The behavior of `typeof` is wrong here.
3. The result of `typeof alert` is `"function"`, because `alert` is a function. We’ll study functions in the next chapters where we’ll also see that there’s no special “function” type in JavaScript. Functions belong to the object type. But `typeof` treats them differently, returning `"function"`. That also comes from the early days of JavaScript. Technically, such behavior isn’t correct, but can be convenient in practice.

You may also come across another syntax: `typeof(x)`. It’s the same as `typeof x`.