# 2.4 变量 Variables

```js
let message;
message = 'Hello!';

// test
console.log("output => ", message);  // output =>  Hello!
```

 declare multiple variables in one line:
 
```js
 let user = 'John', age = 25, message = 'Hello';
```

The multi-line variant is a bit longer, but easier to read:
```js
let user = 'John';
let age = 25;
let message = 'Hello';
```

> There are subtle differences between `let` and `var`.
> We’ll cover them in detail in the chapter [The old "var"](https://javascript.info/var).


We can put any value in the variables, we can also change it as many times as we want:

```js
let message;
message = 'Hello';
message = 'World';

// test
console.log("output => ", message);  // output =>  World
```

We can also declare two variables and copy data from one into the other.

```js
let message1 = 'hello world';
let message2;
message2 = message1; // copy 'Hello world' from hello into message

```

Alert：`Let` twice triggers an error!
```js
let message = 'Hello';
let message = 'World';
// ❌ Uncaught SyntaxError: Identifier 'message' has already been declared
```

## Variable naming

There are two limitations on variable names in JavaScript:
1. The name must contain only letters, digits, or the symbols `$` and `_`.
2. The first character must not be a digit.

When the name contains multiple words, ***camelCase*** is commonly used. That is: words go one after another, each word except first starting with a capital letter: `myVeryLongName`.

Variables named `apple` and `APPLE` are two different variables.

Non-Latin letters are allowed, but ***not recommended***.

Reserved names: There is a [list of reserved words](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Lexical_grammar#Keywords), which cannot be used as variable names because they are used by the language itself.

```js
break, case, catch, class, const, continue, debugger, default, delete,
do, else, export, extends, false, finally, for, function, if, import,
in, instanceof, new,  
```

An assignment without `use strict`

Normally, we need to define a variable before using it. But in the old times, it was technically possible to create a variable by a mere assignment of the value without using `let`.


```js
'use strict';

year = 2024; 
// ❌ Uncaught ReferenceError: year is not defined
```


Uppercase constants

There is a widespread practice to use constants as aliases for difficult-to-remember values that are known prior to execution. Such constants are named using capital letters and underscores.

```js
const COLOR_RED = '#F00';
const COLOR_GREEN = '#0F0';
const COLOR_BLUE = '#00F';
const COLOR_ORANGE = '#FF7F00';

// when we want to pick a color
let color = COLOR_ORANGE;

//test
console.log("output => ", color); //  output =>  #FF7F00
```


Benefits:
- `COLOR_ORANGE` is much easier to remember than `"#FF7F00"`.
- It is much easier to mistype `"#FF7F00"` than `COLOR_ORANGE`.
- When reading the code, `COLOR_ORANGE` is much more meaningful than `#FF7F00`.


## Name things right

A variable name should have a clean, obvious meaning, describing the data that it stores.

Variable naming is one of the most important and complex skills in programming. A quick glance at variable names can reveal which code was written by a beginner versus an experienced developer.

In a real project, most of the time is spent modifying and extending an existing code base rather than writing something completely separate from scratch. When we return to some code after doing something else for a while, it’s much easier to find information that is well-labeled. Or, in other words, when the variables have good names.

Please spend time thinking about the right name for a variable before declaring it. Doing so will repay you handsomely.

Some good-to-follow rules are:

- Use human-readable names like `userName` or `shoppingCart`.
- Stay away from abbreviations or short names like `a`, `b`, `c`, unless you really know what you’re doing.
- Make names maximally descriptive and concise. Examples of bad names are `data` and `value`. Such names say nothing. It’s only okay to use them if the context of the code makes it exceptionally obvious which data or value the variable is referencing.
- Agree on terms within your team and in your own mind. If a site visitor is called a “user” then we should name related variables `currentUser` or `newUser` instead of `currentVisitor` or `newManInTown`.